[dramatic music]
♪
- Ow.
[bleep].
I just cut myself,
but I'm not tapping out.
- It is time to make
this shelter uber insulated.
Arctic winter is no joke.
♪
- Holy [bleep].
I got a fire.
♪
[bleep].
male narrator: In "Alone's"
coldest location ever,
ten participants
fight to survive the arctic.
- The arctic
is one of the most
physically demanding
places on Earth.
- So freakin' cold right now.
narrator: Battling
sub-zero temperatures...
- This climate's harsh.
It's extreme.
It's mean.
It's got teeth.
- Get caught out here in
a whiteout, you're in trouble.
narrator:
Vicious predators...
- Just heard something big
moving back there.
- Me against the wolverine
right now.
narrator: And isolation.
- There's nothing
to fill that void.
It's just you left alone
with your thoughts.
narrator:
How long will they endure?
- [grunts]
- House is on fire.
- I'm scared,
but I don't wanna tap.
- This is the most
unforgiving landscape
I've ever seen.
narrator: The last one
standing wins.
- This environment
will strip away
everything and anything
you thought you had.
♪
[ominous music]
- Last night my shelter
lit on fire.
♪
It caught some moss in a wall.
And I saw it happen
and I tried to put it out
before it got too bad
and I couldn't.
That was my nice
closed-in fireplace.
Didn't know light before.
I knew it was a risk having
the moss higher up
without having it covered
in clay,
but it froze up before
I could get it all done.
Man, it went quick last night.
That whole wall was engulfed.
I had to just start ripping
every part of it down.
♪
Mother-eff it.
I did not need to be
doing this right now.
♪
I don't really have time
to [bleep] around
and feel sorry for myself.
My plan is,
I'm just gonna build this back
pretty much the way I had it,
but we're just not
gonna use moss.
♪
This reminds me of my grandpa.
He was a tough, tough
son of a bitch.
And he always told me,
he said:
"Michelle, if somebody's
standing in front of you
and they're causing you
problems,"
he said,
"You just keep swinging.
When there's nobody left
in front you,"
he said, "then you can rest."
That's kind of been
my motto for like,
you know, you just
keep swinging every day.
Ho, that's tough work, guys.
I cut down a couple of
bigger trees
with the hope I can fill in
the gaps
that are gonna be left.
Hopefully, I can get clay
and fill in all those spots,
and I can avoid
any future fires.
♪
I knew that this would
be hard.
I knew that it would be
a test of my limits.
And I still came.
You gotta find that strength
deep down inside ya.
Could have called it
last night,
but I curled up in
my sleeping bag
and hung on, you know.
[foreboding music]
♪
Having to rebuild set me back,
delaying everything
and putting a real hitch in
my plans.
There's still more work there
to be done.
I just gotta chip away
at things.
I'm having difficulties,
having setbacks,
having challenges,
but that's just kinda how
my life works anyway, you know.
That's nothing new for me.
♪
Nothing ever seems easy for me.
It always seems like
I'm struggling
just to get ahead
and get one foot in front of
the other one.
♪
Just keep swinging.
[dark music]
♪
- Last night was crazy.
Woke up, I believe I heard
a moose running around
out there.
Thought long and hard about
trying to get up and go out
and take a shot,
but it's so noisy
trying to get out of
your sleeping bag
and get your clothes on
and all that.
And once it sees you,
then that would be like,
"Oh, man,"
and blow up the spot.
So today, I'm gonna see
where he went
and kinda follow his tracks.
♪
I need to get a moose,
because I feel like
this location
provides me
really only with rabbits.
Rabbits have so much protein
on 'em and so little fat,
that you can eat 'em,
but not get enough energy.
Fat is what you need,
and it's the stuff of life
out here.
Moose has got a ton of
delicious fat on it.
[foliage ruffling]
Oh, yes.
Here are these fresh tracks.
Slopping up the mud.
I believe these are the ones
I heard last night.
♪
This is great.
From the looks of the tracks,
they follow this weed edge
down to this
little mud bog thing here.
♪
See over there,
that's why I heard him.
My shelter's right over there.
♪
Happy to see the moose
so close.
Not every day you get
the chance like this.
To be able to shoot a moose,
especially one when
you really need it,
it's, like, really exciting.
I'm gonna go make a early
warning system for moose.
♪
So when I'm sitting over there
half dazed off...
I might hear him coming first.
So I took some of these cans
that I found
and put some trip strings
around.
♪
I wanted to put it here,
'cause I actually don't want it
to bang
across the lot of rocks.
I don't want it to actually
scare the moose
or startle it.
I just want it to flip over
that one--clink!
And that'll be enough to
alert me to get my bow ready.
Wish me luck.
[tense music]
♪
- Check my mousetraps.
No mouse.
Let's check the other one.
Come on, be a mouse.
Be a mouse.
Please, please, please.
Oh!
It's set off.
Come on.
Yes!
Hello, beautiful.
Oh, my gosh.
I got a mouse.
He's just frozen and squashed
like crazy, but...
I just...so grateful
for this little guy.
♪
I feel strong.
I feel excited to be
here still.
Overall, I feel good.
Brunch.
I feel pretty nervous.
I mean, I'm not hungry.
I've never gone to bed hungry,
I never wake up hungry.
I'm gonna show you
how to prepare
a blueberry mouse muffin.
You take your mouse head,
and you jam all of these
blueberries in there
so that every bite literally is
a blueberry.
And you don't have to taste
the mouse head.
Like that.
Stay on.
[chewing]
And then after it goes down,
you proceed...
[groans]
With another good dose
of blueberries...
Just for the aftertaste.
Mm.
[sniffles]
♪
The mice are definitely
all over this area,
but they're just small
and so I'd rather be
working on bigger animals
right now.
I feel like I'm actively
gonna seek out
the squirrel that
lives near me.
My body needs more calories
and energy to be able to
walk farther to seek
other animals.
♪
[squeaking]
I hear him.
I actually hear him.
[exhales]
And he's right here.
[squeaking]
[bow vibrates]
Ah.
Whoa, buddy.
Whoa.
[squeaking]
Oh, now.
Where are you, little guy?
♪
[squeaking continues]
I see him.
♪
Hey, buddy.
[clicks tongue]
There's so many branches
in the way.
♪
[bow vibrates]
Oh, I got him.
[grunting]
Freaking got him.
Sorry, buddy.
Oh.
Oh, buddy.
Oh, no.
Oh.
[gloomy music]
♪
Wanna bring it back to
my camp, that's for sure.
♪
I'm really grateful right now.
Really needed this.
♪
Oh, [bleep].
You gotta be kidding me.
I [bleep] stabbed myself
with my arrow.
I can feel blood
dripping down my leg.
- Oh, [bleep].
I can't believe
I just cut myself.
My arrow jammed into my leg,
ripped my pants,
and I can feel blood
dripping down my leg.
[sighs]
I gotta take a look.
Gosh, okay.
Here we go.
Oh, [bleep]!
Jeez.
It's freakin' deep.
Ah...that's [bleep] bad.
I gotta tend to this.
[moans]
♪
Yeah, I'll deal with
the tripod first
before I tend to a flesh wound.
It looks like it needs
serious care.
[groans]
Okay.
[grunts]
[inhales sharply]
I'm just gonna...
[grunts softly]
hold that on there.
Let me tie this thing...
I don't want blood all over
this though, but...
just till I can get
a fire going
and then be able to be warm
and do this.
♪
Oh, come on, striker.
Aw, man, my hands hurt.
[blows]
♪
Oh.
Thank you.
Bless you.
Oh.
[grunts]
Okay, um...
[bleep].
[grunts]
Like a hole in my leg.
Literally, I don't know
how deep it is.
♪
Ow.
I think it looks pretty clean.
It looks like blood, not dirt.
I need some butterfly bandages
quite freakin' clearly.
I'm just making
tons of mistakes.
Out here, you can't do that
kind of stuff to yourself.
You gotta pace yourself
and at the same time,
you gotta just be on it
with everything.
No mistakes...
'cause the next one
will send me home.
Okay, kinda sad to report...
but this is how
I'm walking right now.
Little limpy.
Hi, animals.
Wait for me.
I'm coming.
Like, what the hell, dude?
[suspenseful music]
♪
[chimes ringing]
[birds chirping]
♪
[bow vibrates]
- Shot right over it.
♪
Haven't seen anything
to hunt other than squirrel.
And I've only taken
one squirrel
the entire time
I've been here.
We need to get
a lot more insulation
to at least bide us
until the snows comes.
♪
My thought was on insulating
the shelter
was I was gonna start
harvesting...
some of this mossy,
duffy stuff
and start placing it
over the top of
these spruce bows
on the shelter.
Now that it's pretty much
completely covered in spruce,
that should close up
some of the gaps
and give it
some insulated properties.
Well, let's see how this works.
♪
[grunting]
The best part about
being out here is the freedom.
This journey represents
a higher level of freedom,
a simpler life...
a much more stress-free life.
In a lot of ways
it's way easier
than life in the modern world.
♪
All right, all right,
all right.
Yeah.
Hoo.
While there will always be
a need
for maintenance and upkeep...
with the exception of the door,
my shelter is essentially done.
[groans]
Yeah.
Heck am I gonna do now?
[grunts]
[tense music]
♪
- Interesting thing about
this island...
the wind is blowing in
a direction that's suitable
to call a moose.
And you can see when they cross
that whole muddy peninsula,
so if they're coming
you'll know ahead of time.
♪
I made a birch bark
moose call.
The moose call just imitates
a female
that's ready to mate.
If you're a super avid
moose hunter...
♪
Then don't be too critical.
I'm no pro, but...
[moaning]
[moaning continues]
All right, give that
a few minutes now.
And head back.
♪
The crows are going crazy,
which sometimes they do when
there's a bear walking around.
[crows cawing]
[can tumbles]
Oh, crap.
My early warning system.
♪
I don't see anything
over there,
but I'm gonna be on my toes.
♪
[grunts]
[whispers]
Oh, my God.
[exciting music]
♪
[bow thuds]
Damn.
♪
Estimated his distance,
shot and dropped it
right between his legs.
Oh, man.
Such a downer.
♪
I'm gonna think about that one
for a long time.
Everything worked as planned.
The early warning system
was loud.
If I would have had two shots,
I would have gotten the moose
for sure,
but you don't get two shots.
Not to mention, when I hurry,
I only grabbed one arrow.
So even if I would have had
time to reload,
which I may have,
I did not have another arrow.
♪
I don't get to see that moose
again until the show airs.
That's pretty annoying.
♪
- I was thinking last night
as I was working on the cabin
into the dark,
but after this experience,
depending on how long I stay...
hopefully it'll be,
let's say 94 days,
that I thought it would be
very amusing to get made up
"I survived 94 days alone
in the arctic,
and all I got was
this stupid T-shirt."
I think I'd rather have it
say: "I sur-thrived,"
but I'm not sure--I'm not sure
that what
I'm doing is "sur-thriving."
Truth be told, I think
I'm more "surviving."
I think "sur-thriving"
would involve food.
[laughs]
Yeah, food has first priority,
especially while I still have
a little bit of energy left.
Feels like a good time to do
the further-ranging missions.
[serene music]
It's definitely the arctic.
Not fooling around here.
I mean, it's why I put
so much energy
towards my shelter right away,
rather than food.
But now I am hungry as hell.
♪
There's crowberries here.
I'd love to stop and pick them
and have a little breakfast.
Crowberries are definitely
changing.
The foliage is getting
more orange-y.
And I feel like the berries
are gonna be drying up,
so I'm trying to fill
my gullet now.
Check it out.
Not a bad handful of
crowberries.
All right, that feels like
about all I can manage.
I think maybe it's because
my body
actually really wants
animal food.
I'm really hoping for red meat
and large game.
I think that's the only real
long-term sustainable strategy
for being out here.
[whispers]
♪
It's a very good sign.
Check out this path
through the reeds,
out to the lake.
And then right here,
a pile of freshly chewed
alder branches.
If I could get a moose,
it would turn everything
around.
[whispering]
This is prime moose habitat.
But I'm gonna keep looking
along the shore
and see what I can see.
[suspenseful music]
♪
She flew off.
And I don't know where
it ended up.
♪
I was getting close to
my home base
and heard this flutter
of wings
and, up in this little tree,
flew a grouse.
I crept around closer,
and I took the shot
with a broadhead.
And I totally hit her.
You can see,
went right through her.
Covered in feathers,
covered in blood.
She flew off and now is dying
in the woods somewhere,
and I need to find her.
But hard to find a very
camouflaged, wounded bird
in a landscape she is designed
to blend in with.
Hope upon hope that I can
find her and retrieve her,
'cause that would be
such a shame and such a waste.
And the hunger is definitely
starting to get to me,
'cause I am feeling
a little desperate
around the food situation.
- Just shot my first
spruce grouse.
The arrow went right through
that entire bird.
♪
Oh, it's so hard
to be so close
to having gotten a grouse.
Please...
please, please let me find you.
♪
There's so much habitat
to cover.
♪
She was white and dark gray.
I'm gonna go around
the edges now,
and then I'll go through
the middle again.
♪
I'm pretty physically tough,
and I don't give up easily,
but I'm working really hard.
I'm very active
every single day.
I'm doing a lot that
burns calories
and the cumulative effect
of that is
burning through all of
my body's stored calories.
♪
Just don't know how far
a grouse can go wounded.
I know a bear can run
30 yards after
it's been shot in the heart.
[gasps]
There she is.
Oh, my God.
Thank God.
Oh.
Oh, my God.
I found her.
♪
Oh, I want to save
every piece of her.
She is so gorgeous.
[whimpers]
So grateful.
I've been--I've been coming
to this whole experience
from such a good place;
from a place of just
really wanting to live in
deep connection with the land.
So I've been so conscious
and so prayerful
and so communicative,
but I've been starving.
[laughs]
So it is so gratifying now
to feel--to feel the reward.
[sighs]
Yep.
[laughs]
I've got grouse feathers
smeared in my tears.
[laughs]
Oh, God.
Hoo--wow.
What a freakin' morning!
[tranquil music]
♪
- Fishing, fishing, fishing.
Let's do some catching today.
We're not just fishing.
[splashing]
[grunts]
[bleep].
[yells]
Getting wet was not part of
my fishing plan.
Well, I'm here now...
so I'm fishing.
[panting]
[grunts]
[foreboding music]
♪
Fishing is beginning to be
a point of frustration.
They've definitely suddenly
dropped off.
It's partially because of
the spawn.
Oftentimes
when fish are spawning,
they're not really interested
in much else.
Not seeing a single fish
swimming by, around
in the area.
No little fish, no nothing.
Still got berries to forage...
squirrels to hunt.
♪
In the last 16 days,
I've had one fish,
one squirrel,
and a lot of berries.
♪
Hello, great big ol' berry
hiding down there.
I think my body's getting to
the point where
berries alone may not
be enough.
♪
I'm enjoying the experience,
but at what point is it
not worth it?
Is the risk to my own body
and future health
so great that I need to
call it and go home?
♪
What is that point?
That's long enough.
[pensive music]
♪
I'd say what's keeping me here
at this point...
♪
Is my fear from going home.
My fear...to be back...
♪
In that mundane world.
Nine to fives,
and punching clocks,
and being stressed out
over other people's problems.
♪
Not so hard before
you've tasted freedom...
♪
But definitely hard to go
back into the cage
after you've flown free
for a long time.
[trees whooshing]
- Ooh, it's windy and cold.
So I'm just gonna hang out
in here
and eat my amazing
grouse-iness.
♪
Yes.
Look at that.
That, my friends,
is a good-sized piece of meat.
Wow.
And here are heart,
this is all chunks of
breast meat,
this is liver,
and then there is the leg.
Hoo-ray.
May this motivate me
to hunt better,
so I can eat like this
every day.
♪
Mm.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, that is so satisfying.
This was the tipping point,
and now I'll be bringing in
the game.
And maybe now the grouse
are showing up.
♪
Now that I am fully fortified
with delicious meat
in my belly,
I wanna be out exploring
that new area...
with my bow.
And time is a-wastin'.
[ominous music]
♪
[water whooshing]
- Good morning.
[moans]
Welcome to day 19.
It is a cold morning.
And I think...going on
a roam.
I'll go and see what lies
past the lake.
[serene music]
With fishing
not producing anything
and only so much time left
that I can forage berries,
it's becoming fairly evident
that I am going to have to
turn to active hunting...
♪
Packing a good load today.
Heading up the hill again.
And really need to try to get
a better understanding
of my area.
Nothing I'm doing is working.
I need to find some way
to procure something to eat.
♪
[domineering music]
I geared up for a long run
to go check out
the furthest reaches of
my area,
and I don't have the energy
for it.
♪
I'm basically in a battle
of attrition
and a starvation game.
And I don't know if it's worth
putting myself at risk.
♪
[radio beeps]
Be sure, Ray.
♪
Yep.
[radio beeps]
This is Ray.
I am officially tapping out.
[solemn music]
♪
I've done all I can here.
I've enjoyed this experience.
And I wanna remember it as
something to be enjoyed.
♪
Making that call was
very difficult.
You feel pressure to go out
having given every last ounce,
but it was logistical.
I couldn't find enough to eat.
And the prospect of finding
anything more
than what I'm getting seemed
very unlikely.
So why put my body at
significant risk?
I'm feeling sad about leaving,
like I've let my wife down,
myself down.
I expected to be out here
quite a bit longer,
and I'm feeling anxiety about
going back.
This journey showed me
true freedom.
That gave me
a better understanding of
the modern world.
It's just like anything else.
It's what you make of it.
♪
[dramatic music] - When you're pretty hungry,
time goes really slowly.
So I'd really be happy
to catch a fish,
but takes you all day,
and you don't get anything.
It's just more fun to snare
and hunt
than to stand by the shore
like a moron
for hours and hours.
But you gotta figure it out,
'cause there's only so many
bunnies to snare around here.
♪
Oh, man.
All these snares are empty.
♪
Might have to move 'em.
The word must have got out
that an assassin is
on the loose in the area.
Even the moose are sort of
on to me.
I'm mad at myself for
missing the first one.
That was the big screw up
on my part.
♪
[grunts]
Nature is a beauti--brutal
place at times.
That's why...we're just
part of it.
My dad went through
so much suffering.
He had diabetes,
amputated his leg.
Couple years later,
they amputated his other leg.
And then he lost
all the feeling in his hands.
But somehow he always--very
good at maintaining,
like, a positive
and super encouraging attitude
through the whole thing.
He had that joy in him
up until his last breath.
So it was a lesson that
you couldn't buy with
any amount of money.
[chuckles]
Hopefully,
when the tragedy comes,
our imprint on the world
will be enough to say that
it was--it was worth it.
♪
Nah, I should go do something
more productive.
Could build, you know, like,
a reindeer fence,
kind of funneling
potential moose to stay
near the water.
I'm so desperate for places
to hunt things,
it's worth a shot.
[grunts]
See, when you're chopping
these trees down,
you don't wanna chop 'em
from both sides
so they fall off.
You just wanna...
maybe hit it on this side to
weaken the fibers a bit.
And then just give it one chop.
Fall it over and it'll hold
like that.
We don't need to even set
this one.
Here you go.
You're coming down this trail,
there's a moose.
So, like, "Oh, man,
trees in the way."
No big lazy moose wants
to jump around,
so there you go.
That's a start.
I don't wanna burn
too much energy,
but I'll come do more.
♪
Hopefully,
I get another chance.
I have that giant weight
on my shoulder
all the time that
I'm gonna starve.
[foreboding music]
♪
Well, couldn't sleep very well,
'cause I was thinking all night
about what I should do.
The only thing I can really do
is take my snares that are
being less productive and move
them into better spots.
♪
Think a lot of the snares
that I have that are out
probably no longer
gonna catch anything.
♪
[groans]
It's not cool.
[suspenseful music]
♪
- The wind is
really picking up.
I'm just so exposed right now.
I need to get the hell off of
this rock.
- [groaning]
[bleep].
[moans]
- My heart's pumping so fast
right now.
Just hit that moose.
Some good bubbly blood
on there.
- I heard something screaming
outside.
♪
I'm just gonna go out...
[animal roars]
[bleep].
♪